This is the standalone version of Novel Alignment-based Biome Analysis Software (NABAS+)

NABAS+ requires bwa and samtools to be in PATH. Your reference database should be pre-indexed with bwa (use the bwa index command). NABAS+ requires an additional Taxonomy folder, that can be generated by downloading and unpacking the NCBI taxdump directory (https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pub/taxonomy/taxdump.tar.gz). By default NABAS+ will look for this folder in your database folder, but this can be specified otherwise.
For a test database, taxonomy folder and output, see the test folder!

How to run NABAS+:

java -jar dist/NABAS.jar [-d <arg>] [-h] [-maxMismatch <arg>] [-measureBin <arg>] [-minNotNullBin <arg>] [-o <arg>] [-r1 <arg>] [-r1Mask <arg>] <br> [-r2 <arg>] [-r2Mask <arg>] [-t <arg>] [-taxonomy <arg>]

 -d,--database-folder <arg>   Location of the BWA indexed reference
                              [required]
                              
 -h,--help                    Display this message
 
 -maxMismatch <arg>           Maximum allowed mismatches. Optional, default: 10
                              
 -measureBin <arg>            Number of bin to be counted at the calculation of the relative abundance. Optional, default: 75
                              
 -minNotNullBin <arg>         Number of bins that need to contain reads in
                              order for the species to be accepted as
                              present in the sample.<br> Optional, default: 50
                              
 -o,--output-folder <arg>     Output folder [required]. The temporary and
                              final .bam and .xlsx will be written into
                              this folder.
                              
 -r1 <arg>                    Comma separated list of R1 files [required]
 
 -r1Mask <arg>                Mask string for R1 files. Optional, default: ""
                              
 -r2 <arg>                    Comma separated list of R2 files [required]
 
 -r2Mask <arg>                Mask string for R2 files. Optional, default: ""
                              
 -t,--threads <arg>           Number of threads to utilize at the BWA
                              alignment step. Optional, default: 10
                              
 -taxonomy <arg>              Location of the taxonomy folder. Optional,
                              default: database folder
